For the longest time, I thought only certain people could run a marathon. Skinny people. Athletic people. Bulky men. I am none of these things. But last year, I became a marathoner. My two feet carried me 26.2 miles at the Baltimore Running Festival, as well as dozens of miles in marathon training, across months of slow-and-steady effort. The process of preparing for a marathon taught me lessons for the rest of my life. And actually running one? Changed it.
During my marathon, I saw all kinds of people running and wheelchair racing, putting their training to the test before cheering crowds and volunteers who kept the oranges replenished. Seeing humanity come together – striving for something physically difficult but not impossible – was truly powerful. And I'm here to say: If you have the desire to experience this for yourself, you can. 
"If you have the will and the ability to train, most people can run a marathon," says Laura Norris, a certified running coach with a background in exercise science.
Norris has trained over 200 runners, from first-timers to Boston Qualifiers to ultrarunners. Her ethical ethos is to coach her runners as people first, and runners second.
"I'm never going to be the coach who really pushes an athlete super hard in a single training cycle," she says. "And maybe they have a lot of breakthroughs, but then they are burnt out or they're injured, or they have low energy availability and overtraining. I never want that to happen to anyone."
Together, Norris and I have mapped out a means for you first-time marathoners to build your mileage and finish your race injury-free. Read on for tips on how to safely, efficiently train for a marathon, or listen to the episode at the top of the page.
Start with six to 12 weeks of base training. Investment in base training gives your lungs and legs a solid foundation on which to build. Norris says this can also reduce your risk for injury, allowing your body to transform slowly and steadily. (For more on the science behind this transformation, listen to the podcast at the top of the page.)
The goal is to get comfortable running three to four times a week, with your longest run being roughly 5 or 6 miles. Pushing yourself too far too fast could result in injuries, so make sure to take your time: you can start by running 1 or 1.5 miles and build up week after week.
And remember that it's okay to walk! The run-walk-run method, taking walk breaks during your run to pace yourself, works really well for some people. This method is how I got off the couch and started running as an adult myself.
Don't let the word "race" alarm you! While some are competing against other runners or their personal records, you can work with your own mission statement. For my first marathon, I had a simple goal: FINISH with a smile and no injuries.
